# SNHU-CS300
CS-300
The Problem:
The problem given was ABC University wanted software to help their computer science advisors access course information for their students. We needed to utilize the data structures we learned and write pseudocode to design the software to import data from a file and store it in the chosen data structure. Once ABC University approved the pseudocode design, they wanted to expand the code to incorporate a four-choice menu. This menu needed to be able to load the file, print the course list, print a selected course with the prerequisites, and exit. Additionally, the software needed to be able to sort the course information by alphanumeric course number from lowest to highest and print the sorted list to a display. 
Once the pseudocode was ready for implementation, we were tasked with analyzing the code for the worst-case run time of each, reading the file, and creating course objects for the Big O value. Then we were asked to choose what we thought would be the best data structure for this project. I chose hash tables. 
My Approach:
I first started by ensuring I understood the requirements for these projects. Then I analyzed which data structure would be most appropriate for the task. I considered vectors, hash tables, and binary search trees. After evaluating the advantages and disadvantages of these data structures, I optimized the code's performance and managed the complexity of the tasks we were given. Understanding data structures along with algorithms is an important part of organizing and presenting data logically as well as managing large amounts of data efficiently. 
Overcoming a Roadblock:
The roadblock I encountered was determining the best data structure to use for the final project. After evaluating the data structures and considering the requirements and the potential size of the project (all the computer science courses and associated prerequisites), I determined that a hash table would best suit the task. 
Expanded Knowledge and a Change in Approach:
Working on this project and in this course, activities have greatly expanded my knowledge and understanding of data structures and how they come into consideration during building software. Before this knowledge, my thoughts on building software were mainly on how to get the results the requirements were asking for. I now see that there is a deeper layer to that that needs to be considered, not just print a course list in alphanumeric order but find the most efficient way to print a course list in alphanumeric order. I also worked on a lot of pseudocode in this course which was something that until this course was more of a side project and I feel like it helped me understand it more and why it is an important part of creating software. 
